# KasStamp , Whitepaper (Vision & Product Overview)

**Live Application:** https://kasstamp.com

**Version:** 1.0  
**Date:** 16 October 2025

---

## Abstract

KasStamp articulates a product vision for **verifiable digital evidence**. Its objective is to attach a durable,
portable, and independently checkable proof to discrete digital artifacts, irrespective of content type or domain. The
proof is designed to accompany the underlying artifact across systems and time, enabling third parties,including
institutional stakeholders in legal, administrative, scientific, or cultural settings,to evaluate claims of existence
and integrity without reliance on the originator’s attestations. This paper presents the conceptual framing, disclosure
options, expected semantics of a proof, representative applications, and responsibility guidelines in a neutral,
non‑technical register.

---

## 1. Purpose & Vision

**Purpose.** Provide a neutral, widely legible layer for evidentiary claims about digital artifacts: that a specific
byte sequence existed no later than a recorded time and remains bit‑identical upon inspection.

**Vision.** Establish a proof‑first paradigm that travels with the artifact and is intelligible to heterogeneous
audiences,individuals, enterprises, and public authorities,without imposing new storage venues or social channels.
KasStamp prioritizes user‑determined disclosure. In some contexts, open publication facilitates transparency and
discovery (Public Inline). In others, confidentiality is paramount; evidence of timing and integrity should exist
without exposing contents (Private Inline). Both modes are first‑class and communicated in clear, normative terms.

---

## 2. What KasStamp Offers

When someone stamps a file with KasStamp, they receive a **human‑readable receipt** and a set of references to the
public record. The receipt states what was stamped, when the network accepted it, and how another person can check the
claim later. It can be attached to emails, bundled with releases, kept with archives, or shared in a dispute. The goal
is for a third party,colleague, customer, journalist, auditor, or friend,to be able to verify the proof without
specialized tools or insider knowledge.

KasStamp offers two disclosure choices that match real‑world intent:

**Public Inline** presents the readable file alongside its proof so others can find and examine it directly. This is
appropriate for open publication, public provenance, and cultural memory.

**Private Inline** presents an encrypted representation alongside its proof so only key‑holders can open the material.
This is appropriate for confidential records, staged releases, or any case where timing and integrity matter but
contents must remain controlled.

---

## 3. Applications Across Domains

KasStamp addresses heterogeneous evidentiary needs:

- **Cultural and creative domains:** provenance and release control for digital media and derived works.
- **Scientific communication:** version anchoring for datasets, analyses, and manuscripts to support reproducibility.
- **Legal and administrative practice:** dating and integrity evidence for records, disclosures, and governance
  materials.
- **Personal and community archives:** durable receipts for materials maintained outside institutional repositories.
- **Software and operations:** release artifacts and configuration states recorded with verifiable timing.

These are illustrative rather than exhaustive. The unifying attribute is a portable proof that withstands independent
scrutiny.

---

## 4. What a Proof Means

A KasStamp proof is a plain claim with clear boundaries. It states that **this specific digital item existed no later
than the time shown in the receipt**, and that the item another person later retrieves and verifies is **bit‑for‑bit
identical** to what was stamped. In Public Inline, the readable file is presented to everyone; in Private Inline, the
readable file is available only to those who hold the correct keys.

KasStamp does **not** declare that a person authored the material, owns the rights, or that the content itself is true.
It does not promise that a third party will host public copies indefinitely. The point is narrower and more durable:
timing and integrity, expressed in a way others can verify for themselves.

---

## 5. Availability and Archival Considerations

Public networks prioritize efficiency and resilience, individual operators determine what they retain over time, some
keep comprehensive historical data while others retain only what is necessary for current operation, therefore the
discoverability and retrieval of older public data may vary across periods and providers

KasStamp acknowledges this landscape in a neutral manner, the product issues receipts that allow third parties to locate
and evaluate the relevant public records, and it encourages ordinary record keeping practices such as backing up
receipts, in Private Inline, key stewardship remains essential since readable content depends on the possession of
decryption material

At present, archival capability is present in the ecosystem because various institutional actors depend on it, for
example block explorers and trading venues rely on historical data for their services, while this presence is not a
protocol guarantee, it is a practical characteristic of the current environment

KasStamp’s forward looking vision includes an optional, domain specific archival component that anyone can operate, such
an archiver would retain only the bytes relevant to KasStamp stamps, which reduces resource requirements and lowers the
barrier to participation, the objective is to increase redundancy for KasStamp related data while remaining compatible
with the wider network

**Expectation setting**

- Public Inline focuses on broad discoverability subject to the general availability of historical data in the ecosystem
- Private Inline focuses on controlled recoverability for authorized parties with explicit guidance for key stewardship

---

## 6. Security & Privacy, Explained Simply

KasStamp relies on well‑understood cryptography to make tampering obvious. Changing even a single byte of stamped
material breaks the match that verifiers expect to see. In Private Inline, the content is encrypted before publication
so that possession of keys controls access. Stamps appear as signed records in a public history, which provides a
neutral timeline for acceptance. Throughout, the person stamping remains in control: they choose the disclosure level,
keep their receipts, and,where applicable,manage their keys.

---

## 7. Product Experience

KasStamp is designed to feel like a normal publishing task: choose a file, decide whether it should be public or
private, see a clear cost preview, approve, and receive a receipt. The application explains what will happen in everyday
language and gives simple instructions for sharing and later verification. The emphasis is on confidence and clarity
rather than on the mechanics under the hood.

---

## 8. Responsibility & Policy

Stamps become part of a public record. People should stamp only material they have the right to publish (Public Inline)
or to handle (Private Inline). Public publication is irreversible; Private Inline exists to protect confidentiality
while still giving strong evidence of timing and integrity. KasStamp helps users understand these consequences and
encourages respectful, lawful use.

---

## 9. Roadmap (Vision)

Looking ahead, KasStamp aims to make receipts even easier to share and embed, to improve discovery for public materials
through partnerships, and to offer organizational safeguards,such as guided key stewardship and approval flows,without
changing the core idea of user‑controlled, portable evidence. Interoperability with external verifiers and explorers is
a priority so that proofs remain useful wherever they are examined.

---

## 10. Conclusion

KasStamp is about turning questions of digital existence and integrity into answers that anyone can check. By pairing a
simple receipt with clear disclosure choices, it supports a wide spectrum of human activity,from art and community life
to research, family memory, and commercial practice,without asking people to learn new technical languages. The promise
is modest and powerful: **evidence that travels with your digital materials, expressed clearly enough to be believed.**

---

## Try KasStamp

**Live Application:** https://kasstamp.com  
**Support:** kasstamp@gmail.com

